Elton John called them "boring, paralysing, brain crippling". Michael Parkinson said they had "downgraded" television
and were "doing damage to all of us".

Now it is Paul Weller's turn at playing the grumpy old man by laying into TV talent shows – or rather, "effing talent
shows" – and saying he would be "embarrassed" to take part.

The former frontman of the Jam told the Radio Times that he would never become a judge on competition shows such as The
Voice or The X Factor.

Weller, 53, derided the current crop of TV talent shows as "Saturday-night viewing for the masses", adding: "Would I be
a judge? Would I hell."

Asked whether Simon Cowell should be given some credit after The X Factor alumni One Direction became the first British
band to hit No 1 in the US with their debut album, he said: "Dunno, 'cause I've never heard 'em. I do know what you're
talking about. But I wouldn't give him anything, personally."

He told the magazine: "I'd be too embarrassed to be on those shows. You get some of these kids who think they're a little
bit 'edgy', got a bit of a Pete Doherty haircut. You're not edgy, really, mate. Otherwise you wouldn't be on an effing
talent show, would you?"

Pianist and TV presenter Jools Holland, who was also interviewed by the magazine, agreed, saying: "Yeah, you'd kick the
microphone over, say, 'It's a load of old bollocks, see you later … "

Holland added: "Budding artists need a break, I suppose. But music's not like a competition. It's an art form. I wouldn't
knock the competition shows if that's what people want to do.

"But there's a difference between having it like a game show and having it as something that connects with your spirit
and moves you … that's what music's supposed to be about."

Weller, who recently notched up the fourth No 1 album of his solo career, has previously criticised The X Factor, calling
it "very cheap programming and the lowest common denominator stuff".

Cowell bit back with the wonderfully condescending promise to put Weller on one of his TV shows – but only if he put out
a good record.

But despite his criticisms of TV talent shows, Weller does apparently tune in: at least according to Noel Gallagher. The
former Oasis guitarist and songwriter outed Weller the last time he got on his anti-X Factor soapbox.

Speaking on Sky Arts 1's Jo Whiley Music Show in 2010, Gallagher said: "Weller watches it. He denies it, but I know for
a fact that he does because his daughter is one of my daughter's best friends. "I'd go to her: 'Did you watch The X
Factor?', and she said, 'Yeah, watched it with my dad.' And I'd say: 'Well that is interesting.'"

Weller later told ShortList: "Yeah, I do watch it, but I also watch Peppa Pig with my six-year-old boy. And I'm more of
a fan of Peppa Pig than I am of The X Factor. If anything, it makes more sense."

He added: "I watch EastEnders with my missus because she's mad for it, and Ben 10's my little boy's favourite, but it
doesn't mean I really love those programmes. It's just something you have to do."